and...
Alexa, what’s the weather today?
with clear skies and sun.
Today’s forecast has partly sunny weather
with a high of 77°F and a low of 61°F.
UHHHH…
I still don’t understand the use of Fahrenheit.
Virtually every country on earth uses Celsius
to measure temperature.
But the US still uses Fahrenheit.
And for that reason, we —at Vox— often
get comments like these.
*Okay, we get it.*
Besides the fact that the majority of the world uses it—
the metric system makes conversions
a lot easier.
The Celsius scale even looks simpler.
It has freezing and boiling points at nice,
round numbers— zero and 100.
Where in Fahrenheit, it’s a bit of a mess.
And of course, this isn’t just an issue of aesthetics
or weather updates.
America’s unwillingness to switch over to
the metric system has had serious consequences.
In 1999, a 125 million dollar satellite sent
to Mars, disappeared in the Martian atmosphere.
It’s a setback to years of work already
done in the vastness of space— all it takes
is one navigation error.
And this colossal mistake was largely due to a
conversion error between US and metric measurements.
Fahrenheit was really useful n the early 18th
century.
At the time, no one really had a consistent
way to measure temperature.
But then a German scientist, came up with
the Fahrenheit scale when he invented the
mercury thermometer in 1714.
To make the scale, the most popular theory
is that he picked the temperature of an ice/water/salt
mixture at the zero mark.
He then put the freezing point of water, which
is higher than a salt mixture, at 32.
And placed the average temperature of the
human body at 96.
From there, he placed the boiling point of
water at 212 degrees.
In 1724, Fahrenheit formalized that scale
and was inducted into the British Royal Society,
where his system was a big hit.
As Britain conquered huge parts of the globe
in the 18th and 19th centuries, it brought
the Fahrenheit system and other Imperial measurements,
such as feet and ounces along with them.
And Fahrenheit became a standard system for
the British Empire across the globe.
In the meantime, the metric system was gaining
popularity during the French Revolution.
It was put in place to unify the country at
the national level.
So by the second half of the 20th century,
Celsius became popular in many parts of the
world, when many English-speaking countries
began using the metric system.
Even America attempted to switch over.
The change would have been good for trade
and scientific communications with the rest
of the world.
So, Congress passed a law, the 1975 Metric
Conversion Act—
Which led to the United States Metric Board
that would educate people about the system.
This created the only metric highway sign
in the US— the Interstate 19 connecting
Arizona to Mexico.
But it didn’t go much further than that.
The problem was that unlike the UK, Canada
or Australia, the law made the switch voluntary
instead of mandatory.
And of course people resisted the change,
and the Metric Board couldn't enforce the
conversion.
So, President Reagan ended up disbanding the
board in 1982.
The next nudge to metricate came when the
metric system became the preferred measure
for American trade and commerce in 1988.
But nothing really stuck with the general
public...
...Even though bizarre measurements like Feet
and Fahrenheit are not doing them any favors.
Students have to train for two sets of measurements,
making science education even more difficult.
And companies spend extra dollars producing two sets of products,
one for the US and the other for metric.
There’s also an argument for public health.
According to the CDC, about 3 to 4000 kids
are brought to the ER due to unintentional
medication overdose, every year.
And conversion errors for dosage are to blame.
So it seems like a no brainer— America needs
to switch to the metric system to match the
rest of the world.
But it is still struggling to make that change.
That’s because it’ll take a lot of time
and money but there’s no financial proof
that this will all be worth it.
So unless that change is proven to be economically
better…
We’re not going to be using celsius anytime
soon.
What’s 77°F in Celsius?
77°F is 25°C.
Ah!
Okay.